Code Analysis: add FAQ (#24356)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/code_analysis/faq/_index.md

---
title: Code Analysis Frequently Asked Questions
description: What are the frequently asked questions about Datadog Code Analysis
further_reading:
- link: "/code_analysis/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Code Analysis"
- link: "/code_analysis/static_analysis/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Static Analysis"
- link: "/code_analysis/software_composition_analysis/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Software Composition Analysis"
---

## Common questions

### What are Datadog-hosted scans?

> When using a Datadog-hosted scan, Datadog scans your code within the Datadog infrastructure. Datadog acts

Reviewer: With Datadog-hosted scans, your code is scanned within Datadog's infrastructure as opposed to within your CI pipeline. Datadog clones your code, runs the static analyzer to perform Static Analysis and/or Software Composition Analysis, and uploads the results for you.

as a CI pipeline: it clones your code, runs the analyzer, and uploads the results for you.

> With Datadog-hosted scans, you do not need to do the heavy lifting and configure any CI pipeline to run the analyzer.

Reviewer: The benefit of Datadog-hosted scans is that no configuration is needed in your CI pipeline(s) to use Code Analysis.

> ## Static analysis

Reviewer: capitalize Analysis

### Can results be imported into Datadog from other analyzers?

> While the [Datadog Static Analyzer tool][4] is recommended, Datadog supports the ingestion of files that enforce the SARIF format.

Reviewer: remove tool - "Datadog Static Analyzer"

Reviewer: "files that adhere to SARIF format"

> At this time, we tested our API with the following tools:

Reviewer: Ingestion of SARIF files is verified for the following third-party tools:

 - [gitleaks][1]
 - [semgrep][2]
 - [eslint][3]

To ingest your SARIF file into Datadog:
1. Install the `datadog-ci` CLI (requires that Node.js is installed).
2. Ensure that your `DD_SITE`, `DD_API_KEY`, and `DD_APP_KEY` environment variables are set.
3. Invoke the tool to upload the file to Datadog.

Installing and invoking the tool can be done with the two following commands:

```bash
# Install datadog-ci
npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci

# Upload SARIF file
datadog-ci sarif upload --service "your-app" --env "ci" /path/to/sarif-file.json
```

If you want to import using a tool that is not supported currently, contact your Customer Success Manager.

### Can custom rules be used?

Custom rule availability is planned for all beta customers at the end of Q3 2024.

### Do you always scan all the files at every push or commit?

> Scans on the default branches are always full scans.

Reviewer: Remove the - "Scans on default branches are always full scans."

> Scans on non-default branches use *diff-aware* scans. With diff-aware scans, the analyzer only

Reviewer: By default, scans on non-default branches use ...

scans the files that changed between the current branch and the default branch. Diff-aware scans

> last seconds while full-scans may take a few minutes (depending on the codebase).

Reviewer: last seconds, while

> In order for diff-aware to scan, you need to be using the Datadog platform.

Reviewer: You must be using Datadog's analyzer to enable diff-aware scans.

> ### What is Datadog Static Analyzer on the OWASP benchmark?

Reviewer: "What is Datadog's OWASP benchmark score for Static Analysis?"

> Our Static Analyzer has been tested against the OWASP benchmark with a score of 44. We periodically update the results against the benchmark and publish the results in the [static analyzer documentation][5].

Reviewer: Datadog's Static Analyzer has been tested against the OWASP benchmark with a score of 44. The analyzer is periodically checked against the benchmark and updated results are published to the [static analyzer documentation][5].

### Is the analyzer open-source?

> The Datadog Static Analyzer is available under an open-source license and the code is [available on Github][4].

Reviewer: can we specify the license?

## Software Composition Analysis

### Can I import any SBOM file into Datadog?

> While the [Datadog SBOM generator tool][6] is recommended, Datadog supports the ingestion of any SBOM files.

Reviewer: remove "tool"

Datadog only supports SBOM files with the Cyclone-DX 1.4 and Cyclone-DX 1.5 formats.

> At this time, we tested our CLI tools with the following tools:

Reviewer: Ingestion of SBOM files is verified for the following third-party tools:

By default, scans on non-default branches use *diff-aware*. With diff-aware scans, the analyzer only
scans the files that changed between the current branch and the default branch. Diff-aware scans
last seconds, while full-scans may take a few minutes (depending on the codebase).

You must be using Datadog's analyzer to enable diff-aware scans.

### What is Datadog's OWASP benchmark score for Static Analysis?

Datadog's static analyzer has been tested against the OWASP benchmark with a score of 44.
The analyzer is periodically checked against the benchmark and updated results are published to the [static analyzer documentation][5].

### Is the analyzer open source?

Datadog's static analyzer is available under an open source license and the code is [available on GitHub][4].

## Software Composition Analysis

### What SBOM format Datadog supports?

While the [Datadog SBOM generator][6] is recommended, Datadog supports the ingestion of any SBOM files.
Datadog only supports SBOM files with the Cyclone-DX 1.4 and Cyclone-DX 1.5 formats.

Ingestion of SBOM files is verified for the following third-party tools:

- [osv-scanner][6]
- [trivy][7]

> To ingest your SARIF file into Datadog:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ingest your SBOM file into Datadog:
```

---
title: Code Analysis Frequently Asked Questions
description: What are the frequently asked questions about Datadog Code Analysis
further_reading:
- link: "/code_analysis/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Code Analysis"
- link: "/code_analysis/static_analysis/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Static Analysis"
- link: "/code_analysis/software_composition_analysis/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Software Composition Analysis"
---

> ## Common Questions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Common questions
```

### What are Datadog-hosted scans?

> When using Datadog-hosted scan, Datadog scans your code within Datadog infrastructure. Datadog acts
> as a CI pipeline: it clones your code, runs the analyzer and uploads the results for you.
> 
> With Datadog-hosted scans, you do not need to do the heavy lifting and configure any CI pipeline to run the analyzer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using a Datadog-hosted scan, Datadog scans your code within the Datadog infrastructure. Datadog acts
as a CI pipeline: it clones your code, runs the analyzer, and uploads the results for you.

With Datadog-hosted scans, you do not need to do the heavy lifting and configure any CI pipeline to run the analyzer.
```

> ## Static Analysis

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Static analysis
```

> ### May I import results from other analyzers into Datadog?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Can results be imported into Datadog from other analyzers?
```

> While we recommend to use the Datadog Static Analyzer tool[4], Datadog supports the ingestion of files that enforces the SARIF format.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While the [Datadog Static Analyzer tool][4] is recommended, Datadog supports the ingestion of files that enforce the SARIF format.
```

At this time, we tested our API with the following tools:

 - [gitleaks][1]
 - [semgrep][2]
 - [eslint][3]

To ingest your SARIF file into Datadog:

>  - Install the `datadog-ci` cli (requires nodejs to be installed)
>  - Ensure that your `DD_SITE`, `DD_API_KEY` and `DD_APP_KEY` environment variables are set
>  - Invoke the tool to upload the file to Datadog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install the `datadog-ci` CLI (requires that Node.js is installed).
2. Ensure that your `DD_SITE`, `DD_API_KEY`, and `DD_APP_KEY` environment variables are set.
3. Invoke the tool to upload the file to Datadog.
```

Installing and invoking the tool can be done with the two following commands:

```bash
# Install datadog-ci
npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci

# Upload SARIF file
datadog-ci sarif upload --service "your-app" --env "ci" /path/to/sarif-file.json
```

> If you want to import from a tool not support at this time, please contact your Customer Success Manager.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to import using a tool that is not supported currently, contact your Customer Success Manager.
```

> ### Can I write custom rules?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Can custom rules be used?
```

> Custom rules will be available to all beta customers at the end of Q3 2024.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Custom rule availability is planned for all beta customers at the end of Q3 2024.
```

### Do you always scan all the files at every push or commit?

Scans on the default branches are always full scans.

Scans on non-default branches use *diff-aware* scans. With diff-aware scans, the analyzer only
scans the files that changed between the current branch and the default branch. Diff-aware scans
last seconds while full-scans may take a few minutes (depending on the codebase).

In order for diff-aware to scan, you need to be using the Datadog platform.

### What is Datadog Static Analyzer on the OWASP benchmark?

> Our Static Analyzer has been tested against the OWASP benchmark with a score of 44.
> We periodically update the results against the benchmark and publish the results in
> the [static analyzer documentation][5]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our Static Analyzer has been tested against the OWASP benchmark with a score of 44. We periodically update the results against the benchmark and publish the results in the [static analyzer documentation][5].
```

### Is the analyzer open-source?

> The Datadog Static Analyzer is available under an open-source license and the code
> is [available on GitHub][4].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Datadog Static Analyzer is available under an open-source license and the code is [available on Github][4].
```

## Software Composition Analysis

> ### May I import any SBOM file in Datadog?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Can I import any SBOM file into Datadog?
```

> While we recommend to use Datadog SBOM generator tool[6], Datadog supports the ingestion of any SBOM files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While the [Datadog SBOM generator tool][6] is recommended, Datadog supports the ingestion of any SBOM files.
```

> Datadog only supports SBOM file with the Cyclone-DX 1.4 and Cyclone-DX 1.5 formats.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Datadog only supports SBOM files with the Cyclone-DX 1.4 and Cyclone-DX 1.5 formats.
```

At this time, we tested our CLI tools with the following tools:

- [osv-scanner][6]
- [trivy][7]

> To ingest your SARIF file into Datadog:
> - Install the `datadog-ci` cli (requires nodejs to be installed)
> - Ensure that your `DD_SITE`, `DD_API_KEY` and `DD_APP_KEY` environment variables are set
> - Invoke the tool to upload the file to Datadog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To ingest your SARIF file into Datadog:
1. Install the `datadog-ci` CLI (requires that Node.js is installed).
2. Ensure that your `DD_SITE`, `DD_API_KEY` and `DD_APP_KEY` environment variables are set.
3. Invoke the tool to upload the file to Datadog.
```
